README.md, before:

# Thrash Metal History

If you want to learn about the world of Thrash Metal music, the Thrash Metal History website is the perfect place to start. It provides an overview of the genre's origins and recommends some bands to check out so you can fully immerse yourself in this dynamic and amazing world of Metal.

![Responsive Mockup Images](assets/images-readme/responsive-image.jpg)

[View the live project here](https://tcaldato.github.io/portfolio1-metal/index.html)

## UX

#### The ideal user for this website

- Current user
- New user

#### Current User Goals

1. They want to receive all the information related to the Big Four Bands from the page.
2. They want to easily navigate through the site and access the information they require with ease.
3. They want to easily navigate to the content they have previously viewed.

#### New User Goals

1. They want to easily navigate the entire site intuitively.
2. They want the information they seek to be easily accessible and relevant.
3. They want attractive and relevant visuals and color schemes that work with the content.

#### Development

A website was created to address the needs of both new and current users. The website helps new users identify which bands to look for in order to understand the genre. For current users, the website provides up-to-date information about albums. Additionally, current users can fill out a form to receive notifications about new content on the website.

#### Target Audience

- **Roles:**
  - Current users
  - New users
  - Beginner Headbangers

- **Demographic:**
  - All ages
  - All Countries/Cultures

- **Psychographic:**
  - Lifestyles:
    - Interest in Heavy Music
    - Reserved
  - Personality/Attitudes:
    - Quit
    - Independent
    - Creative

The website needs to enable the **user** to:

- Retrieve the desired information about The Big Four bands that influenced and created a new genre.

The website needs to enable the **site manager** to:

- Gather news about album releases and update the website with this information.

#### Structure

- The website was organized into four pages:

    1. The [Home Page](https://tcaldato.github.io/portfolio1-metal/);
    2. The [Gallery Page](https://tcaldato.github.io/portfolio1-metal/gallery.html);
    3. The [Sign Up Page](https://tcaldato.github.io/portfolio1-metal/form.html);
    4. The [Page after submitting the Form](https://tcaldato.github.io/portfolio1-metal/submitform.html?first_name=sdgsdgsg&last_name=dgsdgsdgs&email_address=gssdgdsg%40sdgsd);

- Each Page is separated into three parts:

    1. The Header, with the Title of the Page and the menu items;
    2. The Body, with the specific information related to each page;
    3. The Footer, with all the links for the Social Network pages.

### Design

#### Color Scheme

- The web page's color scheme takes inspiration from the Thrash Metal genre, specifically albums and concerts. Dark colors dominate the design, while blue, red, and violet accents draw attention to important elements.

#### Typography

- The typography pairing used on the site is [Poltawski Nowy]("https://fonts.googleapis.com/css2?family=Poltawski+Nowy:ital,wght@1,700&display=swap"), imported from [Google Fonts](https://fonts.google.com/). A backup of Sans-Serif had been applied in case of import failure.

#### The information

- The selected information about the Thrash Metal History and the Big Four Bands came from [Wikipedia](https://www.wikipedia.org/)
  
## Features

It is imperative that the website maintains a consistent and responsive navigation system throughout every page. For your convenience, detailed information regarding the available features of the site can be found below.

### Existing Features

- **Navigation Bar**

  - The fully responsive navigation bar is featured on all four pages and includes links to the Home, Gallery, and Sign Up pages. It is identical on each page for effortless navigation.
  - With this feature, users can effortlessly move from one page to another on any device without having to rely on the 'back' button to return to the previous page.
  - The Header is across the top of the page. It is fixed in place and only takes up a small portion of the page, ensuring it does not affect the user`s browsing experience.
  - A back-to-top button was also implemented which will swiftly take users to the top of the page.

![Nav Bar](assets/images-readme/navigation-bar.jpg)

- **The Landing Page Image and Introductory Text**

  - On the landing page, there is an image and accompanying text that provides users with information about the featured bands and their role in starting the Thrash Metal genre.
  - In this section, the user will be introduced to the history of Thrash Metal with an eye-catching animation to grab their attention.
  - A back-to-top button was also implemented, is on the bottom right of the screen, above the footer. By clicking on this button, the user can quickly and easily return to the top of the page from any point on the page.

![Landing Image](assets/images-readme/section1.jpg)

- **The Big Four**

  - In the "Big Four" section, the user can discover the primary bands that established the genre, their albums that had a significant impact on other bands, and their ultimate lineups.
  - For each Section, there is a direct link to the band's page on [YouTube](https://www.youtube.com/). This allows the user to conveniently listen to the band and gain a better understanding of their importance within the genre.
  - This part is divided into four sections, each one discussing a particular band:

**1.** The First Band is Metallica:

![Metallica Image](assets/images-readme/section2.jpg)

**2.** The Second Band is Slayer:

![Slayer Image](assets/images-readme/section3.jpg)

**3.** The Third Band is Megadeth:

![Megadeth Image](assets/images-readme/section4.jpg)

**4.** The Fourth Band is Anthrax:

![Anthrax Image](assets/images-readme/section5.jpg)

- **The Footer**

  - In the footer section, the user can find links to Thrash Metal History's social media sites. Clicking on these links will open a new tab for easy navigation.
  - The footer is a crucial component that ensures users stay connected through social media.
  - Similar to the Navigation Bar, the Footer features a gradient color animation and remains fixed at the bottom of the page for convenient access to Social Media at any time.

![Footer Image](assets/images-readme/footer.jpg)

- **The Gallery Page**

  - The Gallery page is an essential tool for users as it offers a sneak peek into the concerts of all 4 bands, showcasing their strong connection with their audience, and highlighting the exhilarating fun of Thrash Metal Festivals.

![Galery Page](assets/images-readme/gallery.jpg)

- **The Sign Up Page**

  - On this page, the user can sign up for Thrash Metal History to receive news about the Thrash Metal world. They will need to provide their full name and email address to complete the registration process.
  - This page is valuable for users because it provides them with information and allows them to become part of the Thrash Metal community.

![Sign Up Page](assets/images-readme/signup.jpg)

- **The Page after the Sign Up**

  - Once the form to become a member of the Thrash Metal community is submitted successfully, a message of gratitude confirming the user's enrollment will be displayed on the page. This gesture ensures the page's relatability to the user and leaves no room for doubt about their successful enrollment in this exceptional community.
  - A **Home** button has been added to allow users to easily return to the Home Page after submitting a form.

![Page aftr the Sign Up](assets/images-readme/afterform.jpg)

- **Features Left to Implement**

  - **Community Page:**
    - Feature - Create a page that allows users to express themselves, share their concert experiences, and even list the concerts they plan on attending in the future.
    - Reason for not featuring in this release - I did not have enough time to create this page before the submission date and my knowledge of using other programming languages is limited.

## Testing

Testing information can be found in a separate testing [file](TESTING.md "Link to testing file")
- **Issues and Bugs**
  The developer ran into several issues during the development of the website, with the noteworthy ones listed below along with solutions.
  - Header Bug - A bug was found in the header when adjusting pages for responsive view on screens less than 950px wide. The header didn't cover the entire width, leaving a white background behind. After checking the header code and finding no issue, I proceeded to check the CSS code after the heading. I discovered that the problem was caused by the width of the first image in the first section. I fixed the problem by setting the width to 1200px.
  - Back-to-top Button Bug - A bug was found in the Back-to-top Button, which was not appearing at all. The code used for the button was taken from [W3Schools](https://www.w3schools.com/#gsc.tab=0) which included JavaScript. I realize that similar to CSS, JavaScript has to be linked to an HTML page so, researching on the same website, I found how to link the script.js to index.html. Using <script src="./script.js"></script> resolves the issue.
  - Centralizing the Form - There was a bug when attempting to center the form on the Sign Up page, which occurred when making the page responsive. During a mentoring session with Owonikoko Oluwaseun, we found a solution on the [HubSpot](https://blog.hubspot.com/website/center-div-css) website using CSS properties such as position: absolute; left: 50%; top: 50%; transform: translateY(-50%) translateX(-50%); the issue was successfully resolved.

- **Validator Testing**

- HTML
  - No errors were returned when passing the Home Page through the official [W3C validator](https://validator.w3.org/nu/?doc=https%3A%2F%2Ftcaldato.github.io%2Fportfolio1-metal%2F)
  - No errors were returned when passing the Gallery Page through the official [W3C validator](https://validator.w3.org/nu/?doc=https%3A%2F%2Ftcaldato.github.io%2Fportfolio1-metal%2Fgallery.html)
  - No errors were returned when passing the Sign Up Page through the official [W3C validator](https://validator.w3.org/nu/?doc=https%3A%2F%2Ftcaldato.github.io%2Fportfolio1-metal%2Fform.html)
  - No errors were returned when passing the Page After Sign Up through the official [W3C validator](https://validator.w3.org/nu/?doc=https%3A%2F%2Ftcaldato.github.io%2Fportfolio1-metal%2Fsubmitform.html%3Ffirst_name%3Ddfdsfds%26last_name%3Dfdfdfdf%26email_address%3Ddsfsdfds%2540sdfdsfsdf)

- CSS
  - No errors were found when passing through the official [(Jigsaw) validator](https://jigsaw.w3.org/css-validator/validator?uri=https%3A%2F%2Ftcaldato.github.io%2Fportfolio1-metal%2Findex.html%3F&profile=css3svg&usermedium=all&warning=1&vextwarning=&lang=en)

  - **Unfixed Bugs**

  - All of the bugs that were discovered have been resolved.

  ## Deployment

  ...

Commit message:

Added Technologies Used on README.md

README.md, after:

# Thrash Metal History

If you want to learn about the world of Thrash Metal music, the Thrash Metal History website is the perfect place to start. It provides an overview of the genre's origins and recommends some bands to check out so you can fully immerse yourself in this dynamic and amazing world of Metal.

![Responsive Mockup Images](assets/images-readme/responsive-image.jpg)

[View the live project here](https://tcaldato.github.io/portfolio1-metal/index.html)

## UX

#### The ideal user for this website

- Current user
- New user

#### Current User Goals

1. They want to receive all the information related to the Big Four Bands from the page.
2. They want to easily navigate through the site and access the information they require with ease.
3. They want to easily navigate to the content they have previously viewed.

#### New User Goals

1. They want to easily navigate the entire site intuitively.
2. They want the information they seek to be easily accessible and relevant.
3. They want attractive and relevant visuals and color schemes that work with the content.

#### Development

A website was created to address the needs of both new and current users. The website helps new users identify which bands to look for in order to understand the genre. For current users, the website provides up-to-date information about albums. Additionally, current users can fill out a form to receive notifications about new content on the website.

#### Target Audience

- **Roles:**
  - Current users
  - New users
  - Beginner Headbangers

- **Demographic:**
  - All ages
  - All Countries/Cultures

- **Psychographic:**
  - Lifestyles:
    - Interest in Heavy Music
    - Reserved
  - Personality/Attitudes:
    - Quit
    - Independent
    - Creative

The website needs to enable the **user** to:

- Retrieve the desired information about The Big Four bands that influenced and created a new genre.

The website needs to enable the **site manager** to:

- Gather news about album releases and update the website with this information.

#### Structure

- The website was organized into four pages:

    1. The [Home Page](https://tcaldato.github.io/portfolio1-metal/);
    2. The [Gallery Page](https://tcaldato.github.io/portfolio1-metal/gallery.html);
    3. The [Sign Up Page](https://tcaldato.github.io/portfolio1-metal/form.html);
    4. The [Page after submitting the Form](https://tcaldato.github.io/portfolio1-metal/submitform.html?first_name=sdgsdgsg&last_name=dgsdgsdgs&email_address=gssdgdsg%40sdgsd);

- Each Page is separated into three parts:

    1. The Header, with the Title of the Page and the menu items;
    2. The Body, with the specific information related to each page;
    3. The Footer, with all the links for the Social Network pages.

### Design

#### Color Scheme

- The web page's color scheme takes inspiration from the Thrash Metal genre, specifically albums and concerts. Dark colors dominate the design, while blue, red, and violet accents draw attention to important elements.

#### Typography

- The typography pairing used on the site is [Poltawski Nowy]("https://fonts.googleapis.com/css2?family=Poltawski+Nowy:ital,wght@1,700&display=swap"), imported from [Google Fonts](https://fonts.google.com/). A backup of Sans-Serif had been applied in case of import failure.

#### The information

- The selected information about the Thrash Metal History and the Big Four Bands came from [Wikipedia](https://www.wikipedia.org/)
  
## Features

It is imperative that the website maintains a consistent and responsive navigation system throughout every page. For your convenience, detailed information regarding the available features of the site can be found below.

### Existing Features

- **Navigation Bar**

  - The fully responsive navigation bar is featured on all four pages and includes links to the Home, Gallery, and Sign Up pages. It is identical on each page for effortless navigation.
  - With this feature, users can effortlessly move from one page to another on any device without having to rely on the 'back' button to return to the previous page.
  - The Header is across the top of the page. It is fixed in place and only takes up a small portion of the page, ensuring it does not affect the user`s browsing experience.
  - A back-to-top button was also implemented which will swiftly take users to the top of the page.

![Nav Bar](assets/images-readme/navigation-bar.jpg)

- **The Landing Page Image and Introductory Text**

  - On the landing page, there is an image and accompanying text that provides users with information about the featured bands and their role in starting the Thrash Metal genre.
  - In this section, the user will be introduced to the history of Thrash Metal with an eye-catching animation to grab their attention.
  - A back-to-top button was also implemented, is on the bottom right of the screen, above the footer. By clicking on this button, the user can quickly and easily return to the top of the page from any point on the page.

![Landing Image](assets/images-readme/section1.jpg)

- **The Big Four**

  - In the "Big Four" section, the user can discover the primary bands that established the genre, their albums that had a significant impact on other bands, and their ultimate lineups.
  - For each Section, there is a direct link to the band's page on [YouTube](https://www.youtube.com/). This allows the user to conveniently listen to the band and gain a better understanding of their importance within the genre.
  - This part is divided into four sections, each one discussing a particular band:

**1.** The First Band is Metallica:

![Metallica Image](assets/images-readme/section2.jpg)

**2.** The Second Band is Slayer:

![Slayer Image](assets/images-readme/section3.jpg)

**3.** The Third Band is Megadeth:

![Megadeth Image](assets/images-readme/section4.jpg)

**4.** The Fourth Band is Anthrax:

![Anthrax Image](assets/images-readme/section5.jpg)

- **The Footer**

  - In the footer section, the user can find links to Thrash Metal History's social media sites. Clicking on these links will open a new tab for easy navigation.
  - The footer is a crucial component that ensures users stay connected through social media.
  - Similar to the Navigation Bar, the Footer features a gradient color animation and remains fixed at the bottom of the page for convenient access to Social Media at any time.

![Footer Image](assets/images-readme/footer.jpg)

- **The Gallery Page**

  - The Gallery page is an essential tool for users as it offers a sneak peek into the concerts of all 4 bands, showcasing their strong connection with their audience, and highlighting the exhilarating fun of Thrash Metal Festivals.

![Galery Page](assets/images-readme/gallery.jpg)

- **The Sign Up Page**

  - On this page, the user can sign up for Thrash Metal History to receive news about the Thrash Metal world. They will need to provide their full name and email address to complete the registration process.
  - This page is valuable for users because it provides them with information and allows them to become part of the Thrash Metal community.

![Sign Up Page](assets/images-readme/signup.jpg)

- **The Page after the Sign Up**

  - Once the form to become a member of the Thrash Metal community is submitted successfully, a message of gratitude confirming the user's enrollment will be displayed on the page. This gesture ensures the page's relatability to the user and leaves no room for doubt about their successful enrollment in this exceptional community.
  - A **Home** button has been added to allow users to easily return to the Home Page after submitting a form.

![Page aftr the Sign Up](assets/images-readme/afterform.jpg)

- **Features Left to Implement**

  - **Community Page:**
    - Feature - Create a page that allows users to express themselves, share their concert experiences, and even list the concerts they plan on attending in the future.
    - Reason for not featuring in this release - I did not have enough time to create this page before the submission date and my knowledge of using other programming languages is limited.

## Technologies Used
#### Main Languages Used
- [HTML5](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/HTML5 "Link to HTML Wiki")
- [CSS3](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Cascading_Style_Sheets "Link to CSS Wiki")

#### Frameworks, Libraries & Programs Used

- [Google Fonts](https://fonts.google.com/ "Link to Google Fonts")
    - Google fonts was used to import the font "Poltawski Nowy" into the style.css file. This font were used throughout the project.
- [Font Awesome](https://fontawesome.com/ "Link to FontAwesome")
     - Font Awesome was used on almost all pages throughout the website to import icons (e.g. social media icons) for UX purposes.
- [GitHub](https://github.com/ "Link to GitHub")
     - GitHub was used to store the project after pushing    
- [Am I Responsive?](http://ami.responsivedesign.is/# "Link to Am I Responsive Homepage")
     - Am I Responsive was used in order to see responsive design throughout the process and to generate mockup imagery to be used.

[Back to top](#Thrash Metal History)
## Testing

Testing information can be found in a separate testing [file](TESTING.md "Link to testing file")

- **Issues and Bugs**
  The developer ran into several issues during the development of the website, with the noteworthy ones listed below along with solutions.
  - Header Bug - A bug was found in the header when adjusting pages for responsive view on screens less than 950px wide. The header didn't cover the entire width, leaving a white background behind. After checking the header code and finding no issue, I proceeded to check the CSS code after the heading. I discovered that the problem was caused by the width of the first image in the first section. I fixed the problem by setting the width to 1200px.
  - Back-to-top Button Bug - A bug was found in the Back-to-top Button, which was not appearing at all. The code used for the button was taken from [W3Schools](https://www.w3schools.com/#gsc.tab=0) which included JavaScript. I realize that similar to CSS, JavaScript has to be linked to an HTML page so, researching on the same website, I found how to link the script.js to index.html. Using <script src="./script.js"></script> resolves the issue.
  - Centralizing the Form - There was a bug when attempting to center the form on the Sign Up page, which occurred when making the page responsive. During a mentoring session with Owonikoko Oluwaseun, we found a solution on the [HubSpot](https://blog.hubspot.com/website/center-div-css) website using CSS properties such as position: absolute; left: 50%; top: 50%; transform: translateY(-50%) translateX(-50%); the issue was successfully resolved.

- **Validator Testing**

- HTML
  - No errors were returned when passing the Home Page through the official [W3C validator](https://validator.w3.org/nu/?doc=https%3A%2F%2Ftcaldato.github.io%2Fportfolio1-metal%2F)
  - No errors were returned when passing the Gallery Page through the official [W3C validator](https://validator.w3.org/nu/?doc=https%3A%2F%2Ftcaldato.github.io%2Fportfolio1-metal%2Fgallery.html)
  - No errors were returned when passing the Sign Up Page through the official [W3C validator](https://validator.w3.org/nu/?doc=https%3A%2F%2Ftcaldato.github.io%2Fportfolio1-metal%2Fform.html)
  - No errors were returned when passing the Page After Sign Up through the official [W3C validator](https://validator.w3.org/nu/?doc=https%3A%2F%2Ftcaldato.github.io%2Fportfolio1-metal%2Fsubmitform.html%3Ffirst_name%3Ddfdsfds%26last_name%3Dfdfdfdf%26email_address%3Ddsfsdfds%2540sdfdsfsdf)

- CSS
  - No errors were found when passing through the official [(Jigsaw) validator](https://jigsaw.w3.org/css-validator/validator?uri=https%3A%2F%2Ftcaldato.github.io%2Fportfolio1-metal%2Findex.html%3F&profile=css3svg&usermedium=all&warning=1&vextwarning=&lang=en)

- **Unfixed Bugs**

  - All of the bugs that were discovered have been resolved.

  ## Deployment

  ...
